Add how-to on integrating with Lieutenant (#26)
projectsyn/component-vault: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/lieutenant.adoc

= Lieutenant Integration

Vault can be used by Project Syn to store secrets for Syn-managed clusters.
To do so, Lieutenant needs to be able to access Vault

== Authenticate Lieutenant

Lieutenant needs to be able to authenticate itself to Vault.
For that we add an authentication method for the Kubernetes cluster Lieutenant is running on.

> We need to configure this slightly differently if Vault is running on the same Kubernetes cluster or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to configure this authentication method slightly differently depending on whether Vault is running on the same Kubernetes cluster or not.
```

==== Vault on the same Kubernetes cluster

> If Vault runs on the same Kubernetes cluster as Lieutenant the authentication method configuration is very simple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Vault runs on the same Kubernetes cluster as Lieutenant, the authentication method configuration is very simple.
```

> Add the following to your component configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simply add the following to your component configuration.
```

[source,yaml]
----
config:
  auth:
    - type: kubernetes
----

==== External Vault

> If Vault runs separately we need to add a few extra configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Vault runs in a different Kubernetes cluster, we need to add a few extra configuration options.
```

[source,yaml]
----
config:
  auth:
    - type: kubernetes
      path: lieutenant <1>
      config:
        kubernetes_host: https://api.example.com <2>
        disable_local_ca_jwt: true
        disable_iss_validation: true
        kubernetes_ca_cert: | <3>
          -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
          ...
          -----END CERTIFICATE-----
----
<1> We recommend to change the authentication method mount path as the default `kubernetes` path should be reserved for the local cluster
<2> This is the API URL of the Kubernetes cluster running Lieutenant
<3> The CA of the Kubernetes API certificate.
This is also necessary if the certificate is publicly trusted, due to a limitation of Vault.

== Manage Access Policies

> After enabling the authentication method connecting Lieutenant we need to add roles and policies authorizing Lieutenant and the Syn-managed clusters to access Vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After enabling the authentication method for Lieutenant, we need to add roles and policies authorizing Lieutenant and the Syn-managed clusters to access Vault.
```

          policies: lieutenant-operator
          ttl: 1h

  policies:
    - name: syn-cluster <1>
      rules: |
        path "clusters/kv/data/+/{{identity.entity.aliases.auth_kubernetes_5b636428.metadata.service_account_name}}/*" {
          capabilities = ["read"]
        }
    - name: lieutenant-operator <2>
      rules: |
        path "clusters/kv/data/*" {
          capabilities = ["read", "create", "update", "delete"]
        }
        path "clusters/kv/metadata/*" {
          capabilities = ["read", "create", "update", "delete", "list"]
        }
        path "clusters/kv/delete/*" {
          capabilities = ["update"]
        }
----
<1> The `syn-cluster` policy allows each cluster to reveal its own secrets.
<2> The `lieutenant-operator` policy allows the `+lieutenant-operator+` to read and write all secrets.

If service accounts or namespaces differ in your deployment, you will need to update the snippet above.

[NOTE]
=====
The policy `syn-cluster` allows ArgoCD to read the secrets of its cluster.
The templating entry `+auth_kubernetes_5b636428+` is a name generated by Vault after enabling the authentication method.

> This means the policy needs to be added one a second deployment after enabling the method and fetching the name from the deployed Vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the hash in this segment of the templating entry is not known in advance, the policy needs to be added in a second deployment after enabling the authentication method.
The actual value of the segment needs to be fetched from the Vault instance after deploying the authentication method.
```
